---
title: "Advantages Of Virtual NFT Museums"
description: "There are many advantages of virtual NFT Museums, which are now becoming popular worldwide. Here are the advantages of using a virtual NFT Museums."

type: "article"

date: 2022-06-16T21:02:07+02:00
mod_date: 2022-07-25T15:35:07+02:00
thumbnail: "img/blog/nft_museums.webp"
thumbnail_alt: "virtual museum full of NFT art generated by AI"
---
It may sound strange, a museum in the metaverse full of NFTs, but if you think about it, it is not a bad idea.

A Lot of people and institutes have created virtual walkthroughs when the pandemic just started so that people like you and me can go outside even if there is a lockdown.

In this article, I would like to share with you my thoughts on why virtual museums (regular and NFT ones) are a great solution to current and future pandemic problems.

{{< toc >}}

## No covid-19 restrictions.

If you believe in the coronavirus or you think it’s all BS is beside the point, but the fact of the matter remains that governments are enforcing regulations on people and businesses.

These laws result in a decline in visitors and revenue, in some cases, it can lead to bankruptcy.

A virtual museum does not have a physical location besides the server it’s hosted on, this means that bigger groups of people can visit the museum than with a physical location. 

Another benefit of virtual hosted museums, is that pandemic restrictions do not apply to virtual realms, like in the metaverse because there is no physical contact with each other (virtual characters not included).

## Open to the public 24/7.

This all depends on the managers that are running the virtual museums, but in general, every person can log in and start exploring the museum any time of the day (free or paid access).

Great for people that have strange work hours, but also for patients that are hospitalized and have to undergo treatment during the daytime.

Owners of these virtual museums can also add special hours for events or tours with a professional art expert.

## Cheaper than an actual museum.

When you think of a museum with a physical location, the first thing that comes to your mind is big buildings, high-level security systems, and guards to protect the art.

Virtual museums don’t need buildings with a physical entrance nor do they need guards.

This means that money that usually goes to guards and security systems, can now be used to buy more NFTs but can also be used to invest in better cyber security and higher capacity servers.

## People with physical restrictions can visit.

What if you are hospitalized due to some illness, or you're paralyzed and unable to go outside, visiting places like a museum or event would be out of the question.

A virtual event can change that, with a virtual character you can walk around the museum enjoying the art but you can also interact with people you don’t even know,

This could be great for a patient’s mental health and social interaction skills.

## Larger groups at one time.

One thing all museums have in common is the lack of space to accommodate large numbers of visitors while maintaining a high level of security.

Online virtual museums don’t have this problem, they can handle more people in one day than a normal museum.

The only drawback of virtual museums in terms of the number of people they can handle is the amount of server space that is available.

## My closing thoughts.

While I hope that virtual spaces like museums and events will be a big hit when the metaverse will be online, I don’t see it coming very soon.

Not only do the current servers lack the bandwidth and disk space to handle virtual and augmented reality, but people also need high-end hardware to use the required VR hardware.
